{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 XBox 360 Controller driver for Mac OS X
\f1\b0\fs24 \
Copyright (C) 2006 Colin Munro\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://tattiebogle.net/index.php/ProjectRoot/Xbox360Controller"}}{\fldrslt http://tattiebogle.net/index.php/ProjectRoot/Xbox360Controller}}\
\

\f0\b About
\f1\b0 \
This driver supports the Microsoft Xbox 360 controller, including access to rumble motors and LEDs, on the Mac OS X platform. It includes a plugin for the Apple Force Feedback Framework so some games will be able to activate them, along with a Preference Pane with which allows you to test everything is installed correctly.\
\

\f0\b Licence
\f1\b0 \
This driver is licensed under the GNU Public License. A copy of this license is included in the distribution file, please inspect it before using the binary or source.\
\

\f0\b Installation
\f1\b0 \
Simply complete the installer package to install the driver. The driver will recommend you restart - if you do not, the driver will only be usable if the controller is already connected or connected within a minute after the installer completes. To test, connect the controller before loading the Preference Pane, as the code to detect connection is mysteriously not working. If you are interested in installing in a developer please see below.\
\

\f0\b Usage
\f1\b0 \
The driver exposes a standard game pad with a number of standard controls, so any game that supports gaming devices should work. In some cases this may need an update from the manufacturer of the game or a patched version. The Preference Pane uses the standard Mac OS X Frameworks for accessing HID devices and accessing Force Feedback capabilities, so should be a good test that the installation is functional.\
\

\f0\b Known Problems/Todo
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'a5	}The rumble motor test on the triggers of the Preference Pane bypasses the Force Feedback Framework functionality, so isn't actually testing it. It really should, for completeness (and it'd help adding support for more complex effects)\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Settings aren't persistent, I don't think (need to be set when the device connects)\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Force Feedback plugin may make effects run slower (e.g. longer time) than they should\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Driver probably needs to be more resilient to errors and odd cases\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Better Force Feedback "emulation"\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Extra settings? E.g. trigger deadzones, control remapping.\
{\listtext	\'a5	}Someone has requested old Xbox Controller support too.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \
Contact me
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx0\tx220\tx660\tx720\tx740\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 Please feel free to contact me with any comments, questions and so on using the form at the URL at the top of the file.\
\
\pard\tx0\tx220\tx660\tx720\tx740\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 Developer info
\f1\b0 \
Anything below this probably doesn't affect end users, so you can stop reading now if you just want to use the driver.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\f0\b Building
\f1\b0 \
The distribution currently consists of 3 projects - one for the driver (implemented in C++, as an I/O Kit C++ class), one for the force feedback support plugin (implemented in C, as an I/O Kit COM plugin) and one for the Preference Pane (implemented in Objective C as a preference pane plugin). Ideally these 3 targets should be in the same project, but I've not worked on this yet.\
\
To build, use the standard Xcode build for Deployment on each of the 3 projects. Build Feedback360 before 360Controller, as the 360Controller project includes a script to copy the Feedback360 bundle to the correct place in the .kext to make it work.\
\
To debug the driver, sudo cp -R 360Controller.kext /tmp/ to assign the correct properties - note that the Force Feedback plugin only seems to be found by OSX if the driver is in /System/Library/Extensions so I could only debug it in place.\
\
To test the Preference Pane, just double-click the resulting file.\
\

\f0\b Debugging
\f1\b0 \
Most of the debugging I did was via printing out text. In 360Controller, you can use IOLog(), and the output will appear in system.log. In Feedback360 normal fprintf(stderr,...), and the output will appear on the console of whatever application is attempting to use Force Feedback. In Pref360Control NSLog() works as it's an Objective C program, and will output to the console of the Preferences application.\
\

\f0\b Installer
\f1\b0 \
Included is an installer project for Iceberg. Download Iceberg at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://s.sudre.free.fr/Software/Iceberg.html"}}{\fldrslt http://s.sudre.free.fr/Software/Iceberg.html}}\
\

\f0\b Other information
\f1\b0 \
I wrote the driver from scratch, using Apple documentation and drivers simply as a reference and not basing it upon any existing source. As such, some things may be done strangely or incorrectly, so excuse any weirdness. I've also tried to include comments to explain generally what's going on :)\
}